(electronic music)
(speaking in foreign language)
Hello and welcome to another episode
of "No Such Thing as a Fish A Weekly Podcast"
this week coming to you from the wilderness festival.
(audience cheering)
My name is Dan Schreiber.
I'm sitting here with Andrew Hunter Murray,
James Harkin and Aniches Insky.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days
and in no particular order, here we go.
We're gonna start with my fact this week.
My fact is that in 1957,
America developed a shouting bomb
that would lecture the enemy for three minutes
as it dropped from the sky.
(audience laughing)
When I get down there, you are in celebration, mister.
This was a very rogue one mentioned
and in new scientists article,
I haven't been able to approve its existence
outside of this one article.
Yeah, there's no mention online at all, is there?
It's almost as if I made it up.
(audience laughing)
But why?
I read also that apparently it would give instructions
to the soldiers on the ground as well.
As a bomb came down, you'd be able to hear what to do
if you were soldier.
Really?
Like run.
As it takes three minutes to shout that.
No, so what I couldn't ascertain is does this bomb go off
or is it merely a propaganda tool?
So the idea is that it would be dropped from a plane
from about 60,000 feet high.
And then parachutes would deploy
and then as it was making its ascent
or descent rather to the ground.
(audience laughing)
Well, that's correct.
And much of the people in the airplane,
oh, it's coming back.
(audience laughing)
This is the worst lecture ever.
Yes, so the idea is that it would parachute down
and then it would just, and this is 1957,
as it got to a certain height,
a tape recorder on the inside would switch on
and it would play a tape through the speakers
in the shouting bomb out to the general area
and it could be heard as far as half a mile apparently.
Wow.
And we don't know what it exactly what it said.
I know, we don't know if it's real.
I mean, where?
(audience laughing)
But it's in new scientists
and I have to say the reason I think a lot of great
pop science writers have these incredible careers
like John Ronson and Mary Roach and so on.
They uncover these documents
'cause there's so many of these abandoned plans
for military weaponry where they thought,
"Oh, this would be an amazing thing to do."
And it gets to the stage where it's about to be approved
and then it doesn't.
So I believe this is the same.
They almost got this approved
and then lost it at last.
They are, I mean, the ideas people were coming out with
were all completely insane
and there's so many of them.
Every time we talk about this,
like I hadn't read about Acoustic Kitty,
which I think was a project that got a little bit further
but that was the CIA around the same time in the 1960s
and this was a Cold War project
and the idea was that they wanted to spy on Soviet embassies
and they were gonna do it with cats.
And so that implanted a microphone into a cat's ear canal
and it had a radio transmitter at the base of its skull
and put wire into its fur
and it sounds very gruesome.
They sort of cut the cat open
and then put batteries in its body
and stuff apparently.
- That does sound a bit gruesome, haven't you?
- The cat was fine at the stage, the cat was fine.
And then the idea was that the cat would be sent
to where suspicious enemies were hanging out
so they sent the cat to where they thought
a couple of Soviets were in Washington
and they let the cat out the van
and it got hit by a taxi and killed immediately.
- No.
- But there was a robot dog that they did build and develop.
So this is, I'm not sure if your bomb was DARPA.
If you heard of these guys, DARPA,
so it's a Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
Basically they do a lot of the wacky stuff
for the American military.
And one of the things they develop was a robot dog
who would carry weapons around the battlefield
and it's on four legs and it's really good.
You can push it really hard and it won't fall over.
So it's stable, okay?
And it trots around and it can go up hills and down hills
but it was recently scrapped because it was so noisy
it would immediately give away anybody's position
on the battlefield just by its presence.
- Is it like a worrying noise or is it barking or what?
- It's a worrying, they didn't build in a bark
to give away the position.
(laughing)
- Can't you just take the bark away?
It wouldn't be realistic without that.
(laughing)
- Have you guys heard of Bird's Eye bomb?
- No.
- No, is that a fish finger related thing?
- No, so this is a pigeon guided missile
and this was developed in World War II
by a psychologist called B.F. Skinner
and the idea behind this, he was looking at pigeons
and he was like suddenly I saw them as a device.
Could they not guide a missile?
And this genuinely was put into test.
He had the pigeon looking at specific images
that might be the target during World War II.
So for example, a huge ship
and he would have the pigeon peck, the ship.
And every time it peck the ship,
it was like yes, that's your goal.
It would get a reward or something like that.
The idea behind this missile is that in front of the missile
there was gonna be a little nodule
that contained the pigeon inside.
And when they launched the rocket,
the pigeon would see the ship in the distance
and start pecking the front of the missile
and wherever it pecked is where the missile turned towards
and that it would bring it to wherever it needed to go
through the maneuverability of the pigeon neck
and it got past all the physicists and the military people
but it didn't get past the budget.
So it would have worked.
We could have had pigeon dodged the missiles.
- How much does one pigeon cost?
(audience laughing)
- There's a great military website called WarOnTheRox.com
and it's just fascinating articles about military history
and future and development and everything.
And they're saying that in future it's much more effective
than having one hundred million pound missile
to have a swarm of geese which are robots
which each has a small amount of explosive on it.
See what I mean?
Yeah, I think I haven't explained that as quickly as I could
and I nor as clearly as I can see it in here.
But why is it that's better than having one huge goose with a...
- It's much better than having one big, yes.
- It's a giant explosive.
- In this analogy the cruise missile is one massive goose
and you're saying you want a thousand tiny geese.
- Got it, 'cause it can scatter it further.
- It can scatter even advanced defense
and interceptor systems can't get all the geese, can they?
- No, but what if...
- Maybe they should be like insects
and like really, really, really small bombs.
That'd be good, right?
- Yes.
- How?
- Yes, it would.
- How deadly a device can you attach to your average house fly?
- Yeah, that's a good point.
There was a thing they did with insects
which was it was called the harassing, annoying
and bad guy identifying chemical systems.
- Right.
- And what they would do is they put a chemical
on a bad guy and it was attracting insects
and so all the insects would fly near him
and they'd know which one the bad guy was.
- Right.
- Is that like an official government turn?
- Bad guy, is that used?
(laughing)
I think in the American military they do use that, they do.
- But if you put a queen bee on a bad guy.
- Yes.
- All the other bees get attracted to the queen bee.
That is a thing that happens.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You could slip a bee in his pocket when he's not looking.
- Yeah.
- A queen bee.
- And then all the bees are gonna go and attack him.
- Do you guys remember that genuinely happened
in the news last year where someone accidentally trapped
a queen bee into the back of her car, drove off
and was chased for hours by this queen hive?
And she had no idea why.
There's this grandmother going, what the hell is going on?
- There is one more DARPA thing that DARPA did.
- Yeah.
- Okay, so after President Kennedy was assassinated,
they had a thing which in private,
they called Operation Barn Door.
I, we did not manage to save the last president,
but we do wanna save the next president, okay?
That was how they refer to it.
And privately, that was not the official name of the thing.
But one of their ideas for saving the president,
the next president's life in the event
of an assassination attempt, this is real,
was to put a fake bulletproof sunshade on his head.
- Yeah, there's sort of some visor things that you have.
- But they said you would also have to spread fake weather reports
to justify why he was wearing it.
(laughing)
- So he would be out in the raid
and they're going to be beautiful sunny day here.
(laughing)
- Right.
- That's amazing.
That's how they think these guys.
- That visor is only covering a little bit of his body.
- We'll cover about 2% of the body.
- So what they should really do is give him
a bulletproof beekeeping suit.
- Yes.
- And then spread information that there's a queen bee around him.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- Did you guys know, just one weapon that the US is developing now?
So they're still doing some pretty weird stuff,
is a sticky foam gun.
So this is the idea is that it's a non-lethal thing
that shoots sticky foam at the enemy
and it lands on the ground.
And if you're driving something over it
or even if you're running over it,
then you get stuck to it
and you can't continue to chase the enemy.
And this was actually tried in Somalia in 1995
when they were trying to evacuate people from there.
And so it's this taffy like goo that it shoots out.
It's shot from a hose.
It's designed to fix the person's feet to the ground.
At the moment it's at a stage where people's feet
can move faster than the glue actually works.
So the best that could possibly happen was
if you hit a person's thighs,
his legs sometimes stuck together.
(laughing)
- But even then, if someone manages to wrap
so them and go under their legs,
they'll be free, I believe.
No.
(laughing)
- Yeah, that's the truth.
- All right, it is time for fact number two
and that is James.
- Okay, my fact is that earlier this year,
a book called "40 Minutes Late"
was returned to a library in San Francisco
100 years late.
(laughing)
- It's so cool.
- Is that the latest ever that it books?
- No, it's not.
Often people say that George Washington is a lake test ever.
He, well, he didn't return it.
It was returned 200 years after he borrowed a book.
- Oh, okay.
- Obviously for obvious reasons,
he didn't return it himself.
(laughing)
Although what actually happened was
they found out about this book
and they couldn't find the original.
And so they bought another copy of the same book
and returned that to the library.
So it was a bit of a cheat.
- Oh, yeah, yeah.
- It's a pretty cheat.
- That's what a cheat turned into one.
- Yeah, yeah.
That's the one that the whole internet says
is the oldest return book,
but actually it was a completely different book.
- Yeah.
Well, do you know how, when he took it out of the library,
he didn't even bother to sign his name.
He just got his assistant to write the word "president."
And that's how they've assumed that it was him.
- It's just imagine the president being
that eagletistical these days, isn't it?
(laughing)
- Just an ordinary man.
- It's hard to imagine the president
visiting a library these days.
(laughing)
(cheering)
- So what's the context of this?
- Oh, yeah, that's a good point.
So yeah, this was just a book
that was borrowed in 1917 by a lady called Phoebe Johnson.
And they found the book, and they gave it back.
And there was a fine of $3,650 that she owed or her family owed,
but they waived that.
- They always waived the fine.
- They always waived it.
- And I always think libraries are in trouble now.
They need that money.
- This is what I think.
If you have a book, which is like two weeks over,
and you need to pay two quid on it,
keep it for another 100 years, they'll waive the fine.
(laughing)
- What we need is an example where someone has taken it out,
returned it five years late,
and it's given a lifetime sentence.
That's what we need just in them.
We'll all bring books back.
- That's not what works best.
So they have amnesty's at libraries all the time.
And those work better for getting people to return the fine,
'cause people don't return them,
'cause they're afraid of the fine.
And then the fine gets worse and worse,
and then you're more afraid,
so then you never return it.
But lots of libraries.
So last month, Sydney scrapped library fines
from now until 2021, saying they don't work,
remind us work better, please just bring the books back.
And they've had three times as many returned.
- Is that right?
- Yeah.
- Apparently there are 25 million books
that are officially missing from UK libraries.
- Oh yeah.
- And that would take at the current rate of publishing
in this country, it'd take 135 years
for that many books to be published.
- Yeah.
- But this is, they think it might be more actually.
So they've looked at their records, library records,
and 25 million books are missing,
as in they've compared it to, I think about 40 years ago,
and we've lost half the books.
But they looked at a bunch of Suffolk libraries,
and they realized that they had 10,000 books missing
that weren't logged as missing,
so they've just haven't logged it into their history.
- It's just completely empty.
- So that's not a thing.
(laughing)
- And all libraries have said, yeah,
we have the same thing.
We forget to log returns and stuff all the time.
So it's thought that we've just got way more
than 25 million books that have disappeared.
- Wow.
It's new paint and it's been followed by Amazon
for where they're gonna put all of their stuff now,
including books.
So they've got their own sort of new warehouse library,
and it's underwater.
So the bottom of a lake, though.
Yeah, they're building this--
- Well, the bubble warehouse.
- The bubble, the books will be soggy, no?
- With the, no, they're like those bath books
that you get.
- Every book will be like that, every book.
(laughing)
So they're building this bubble warehouse
underneath a lake right at the bottom,
and any time an order comes in,
all the stock that's down there, books,
or anything like Kindles or TVs, whatever you buy,
are gonna be in these big canisters.
And if you've ordered it, they're gonna send the item back up
to the surface by releasing a balloon
that will carry it to the top of the lake.
I mean, I think we've all got the same question.
(laughing)
Which is what advantage does this have
over a normal land-based warehouse?
- I would imagine real estate must be cheaper
than the bottom of a lake.
- Yes, yeah.
- There's no one wants to live there, do they?
- And it's so weird that I did not ask myself that question.
(laughing)
My favorite bit of just general book news from the air?
- Right.
- Tory politician, Gavin Barwell,
who wrote a book called How to Win a Marginal Seat,
lost his marginal seat in the 27th general election.
- Oh, so good.
He didn't say how to win every marginal seat.
(laughing)
- That's true.
- You know, you were saying that you get library amnesties.
And one of the ways you can take a book back
and not be fined is by writing the most imaginative excuse
you can think of.
And this is in San Francisco,
which is this where this was fact was from, James.
- Yeah, that's right.
- So this in San Francisco in 2009,
they had an amnesty where they said if you turned up
and you wrote down a really imaginative reason
why you had brought it back late,
then they didn't charge you.
- Do you have, do you have examples?
- Well, there are some.
So one of the women said this book was so nice,
it looked so posh on my shelf, I couldn't bear to give it back.
It made me look really well read.
(laughing)
One, a group of people said they were too busy
rescuing marine mammals.
- That's quite good.
- Yeah, that's good.
- Yeah.
One woman had bought out a book on romantic relationships
'cause she was looking for some insight into
how to solve her relationship problems.
And she decided she'd keep it
'cause she needed more advice than the library allowance
had time to give her.
But three partners later, she decided it wasn't helping
and then returned it.
(laughing)
In 2013, a Belgian professor analyzed a copy
of 50 Shades of Grey from a library in Antwerp.
It tested positive for both cocaine and herpes.
- Wow.
- Yeah, but have they analyzed pride and prejudice
for comparison?
(laughing)
- The worst thing is, that's the one fact
you're all gonna remember.
(laughing)
- I think, can you get, excuse my ignorance,
can you get herpes from a book?
(laughing)
'Cause it's like a lot of tests to carry out when I get home.
Do we need to move on, shortly?
- Uh, shortly, yeah.
- Oh, if you got something before we do?
- Well, there's a library in Portugal,
which is partly stuffed by bats.
So, I thought I'd better.
- Yeah, no, get that in.
- So, what, in what way are they partly?
- Quite.
It's called Mafra Palace Library.
So it's a beautiful ancient library.
It's about three or four hundred years old, I think.
And it has a colony of bats living there
who live behind the shelves.
And then when the library closes down at night,
they come out, they fly out,
and they fly all over the library.
- And they put all the books back.
- They put all the books back.
(laughing)
- No, but they do eat all the insects
that get into the library.
And the library apparently is full of insects.
So, the insects would be damaging the books,
but they can't damage the books
'cause they've been eaten by the bats.
So, every night, the bats eat,
each bat eats double its own weight in insects.
- Wow.
- The only problem is that they also leave
a thin layer of droppings over the whole library.
(laughing)
All right, should we move on to our third photo?
- Okay, and it's time for fact number three.
And that is Anna.
- Yeah, my fact is that the person
who invented crowd control barriers did so
because so many people were flocking to see his giant balloon.
(laughing)
This is his guy called Nadar,
who I just found out about,
'cause there's a new book about him called The Great Nadar,
it's by a guy called Adam Begley.
And he's sort of a multi-talented guy,
but he was the most famous photographer in France
in the 19th century.
He was a caricaturist.
He was a balloonist.
And he decided to build this giant balloon
and attracted loads of people to come and see it.
And then so many people came to see it,
all these crowds flopped and flopped.
He couldn't take off.
So, he was attracting like 200,000 people
to one balloon takeoff.
- A thousand people.
- It's a lot of people.
At one point, he attracted, I think,
a quarter of the population of Paris
went to see him launch a balloon.
- Wow.
- And so then he designed crack control barriers,
which is exactly the same design that we have today.
- So this one was, was it called The Giant,
this one that you're talking about?
- La géon.
- La géon, yeah.
It had enough room for 20 people in the gondola
at the bottom of the balloon.
It also had a lavatory,
bunk beds, a printing press,
and a wine cellar.
- Oh.
- Wine cellar in the hot air balloon, yeah.
- And a billiard's table.
- It was incredible.
It had six different rooms in the basket.
And yeah, you could play billiards in it.
They had, when he launched it on its second attempt,
he took, I think, 12 people up,
and they all had a really posh dinner on the balcony.
- On the balcony?
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- Are you confusing this with the cartoon up?
The movie up?
- Yes.
- Is it a cellar?
Is that one, that's on a different level, isn't it?
- Well, it was two levels.
- It was two.
- It was two levels?
- Yeah.
- Two stories.
- It was not like a bungalow in...
(laughing)
- It was like two bungalows on top of each other.
- He invented the double bungalow?
- Wow.
This guy is good.
- The thing is, the first...
I think it was the first time he said of it.
It's very, the maiden void of the giant.
Everyone came to see it, and how many people did he say it was?
- It was 200,000 people.
- 200,000 people.
But the inflation took so long,
'cause it was the largest hot air balloon
that had ever been built,
that they were all really, really bored.
Well, before it was full.
And as it took off, they just suddenly, silently watched it,
disappear into the sky.
They didn't cheer at all.
As they were so angry that their time had been wasted.
(laughing)
- Oh, really?
- Yeah.
- A similar thing happened in Leicester in 1864,
where they had a hot air balloon.
It took so long to go up, everyone got a bit bored.
The police tried to sort out a little bit of a ruckus going on.
And then someone got hit, and then a massive riot ensued.
And then the guy who was running the hot air balloon
decided I'm not doing this anymore,
made the hot air balloon go down,
and everyone run over, burned it, ripped it up,
and then paraded it through the streets of Leicester.
- Wow.
- And for a while, people from Leicester were called Ballooner Ticks.
So, yeah, for most of the end of the 19th century,
if you were from Leicester, people would call you a Ballooner Tick.
- Wow.
- Because if there was a riot happening on the ground,
and I had access to a hot air balloon,
my instinct would be to get out of there,
- Yeah. - Quickly.
- He just legged at this guy.
He was called Henry Coxwell.
And he was quite famous, Ballooner's before.
He'd once gone up into the stratosphere,
see how high he could go up in his hot air balloon.
And he went up and up and up until he went temporarily blind
and passed out.
He lost all sensation in his hands,
but luckily there was one other guy in there
who just before he passed out managed to open a valve
with his teeth, which made a comeback.
- Oh, it happened to his hands.
- Oh, he had no sensation in them, maybe?
- Yeah, no sensation.
- I see.
Okay, unlike your very, you know, nervous teeth.
(laughing)
- Or he liked a challenge.
- Yeah.
- I was reading about more about this in the dark eye.
He is an extraordinary character.
- Oh, he's the best.
My new favorite guy.
- Yeah, he's beyond ballooning.
He's a huge pioneer of photography.
So, one of the things that he used to do in the hot air balloons
was to effectively invent aerial photography.
So, facing over Paris, he used to go over fields
and he did it hundreds of times
because he couldn't manage to get the exposure
on the camera right because the balloon kept moving
and obviously photos took a long time
to capture the motion.
And also, what he didn't know at the time was
the gas that was heating the balloon was getting away
and putting soot all over.
So, he'd come down and there would just be black photos
completely.
And he'd be like, I'm pretty sure it was daytime
when I did this, and that was the reason for that.
And then he also invented underground photography.
So, he's like, he's hit every spectrum underground photography.
- Yeah.
- He actually did it in, we talked a few weeks ago
on the podcast about the catacombs of Paris
and he did it in the catacombs, didn't he?
And so, lighting with candles the area
and then taking photos.
- It's a bit much to say he invented underground photography.
He's just taking photos on the ground, isn't he?
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- It's like the wind up radio.
It's not really an invention.
It's just two inventions stuck together.
- And also, I think you usually say he invented something
when it's something we all recognize.
It's not like we've all gone, God,
can you imagine the world without underground photography?
- Yes, but, okay, he took the invention of the camera
and he took the person invented underground
and he smashed them together, and that's what he did.
But photography wise, it is worth saying that,
thanks to him, we have extraordinary portraits
of some of the greatest figures of that period, Jules Verne.
He did this gigantic caricature of all of them,
where he, again, kind of effectively invented
that whole caricature, grotesque, large head, small body thing.
He did a 300-person line of all the most influential people
in Paris at the time, or France, generally.
And while he was doing it, it was taking too long
'cause the most important ones came into sit
for their drawings.
So when photography was around, he was looking at that going,
"I could capture them and start doing them via this."
So he managed to get Jules Verne.
He managed to get Victor Hugo.
He got Sarah Bernhardt.
He didn't get Balzac because he thought
that cameras would steal his soul, so he said no to the photo.
But some of the most important people,
and they're beautiful photos, if you look at them online.
Yeah, they really are.
He wasn't very successful, actually.
His balloons were just crashing constantly, and he kept going.
So there were first-hand reports of the giant balloon
that he sent up, where the aim was that it would travel
over loads of different countries.
So the first guests that got on, they brought tour guides
to various countries in Europe, and they brought their passports.
But you can't control where you're going.
That's why you have to take tour guides to all of them.
Get a visa for everyone.
And this was pretty easy, so they would have needed a visa,
wouldn't they?
For every single border.
But they didn't get very far.
So the first time they lasted 15 miles,
and then the balloon plummeted to earth,
and the wicker basket was bumped along the earth.
The second one actually traveled 400 miles,
so it flew over the Netherlands and into Germany,
but then Nadar Panik, so the balloon was getting too hot
from the heat of the sun.
So he started letting the air out, and the winds took it,
and it crash-landed into the ground.
And there are these descriptions of it bouncing across fields.
On its side, everyone in it being tossed around,
bouncing through a wood, it went towards a railway track.
The train driver did an emergency stop,
and Nadar said a couple of feet before he hit them.
And then it just spilled everyone out.
And people were scattered across the ground like fallen apples.
Being dragged along the floor for it,
it was like for miles, wasn't it?
It was, yeah.
That's-- I mean, you can't play billiards
while that's happening, how do you--
It would make it more interesting game, possibly.
So you know how every invention is tested on animals
before it's tested on humans?
Is it?
Yeah.
So space flight, they send up the dolls.
Oh, yeah?
They send up the-- they send up in text first.
Same is true of hot air ballooning.
They send up together in the first hot air balloon flight,
a rooster, a duck, and the sheep.
And it was thought the sheep would be most helpful
because it's a land animal, so the rooster and the duck
are obviously used to soaring to great heights above the earth.
But the sheep is more like the human,
so we can see if it explodes or whatever
when it gets up there.
And they did?
No, it didn't explode.
So what's the next phase after animal trials?
Anyone?
Human trials.
Well, not just any human trials, condemned criminal trials.
So the next step was to send up a condemned criminal
in the basket of the balloon to see if he exploded.
The only problem was that the only people
who knew how to fly them were real experts,
because obviously it was a quite a tricky thing to do.
And very few of the qualified experts
wanted to go up with a dangerous criminal
in a hot air balloon, which is a wicker basket, which is tiny.
So Holden, when the rooster and the sheep and the duck went up,
they also had a human expert with them flying the balloon.
I am not sure.
Because I always pictured it as just then.
So did I.
But I don't understand how that happened.
I think it was.
I think it was Tethered.
It was Tethered, so he was winding it back down.
Because you nearly just blew this thing wider, didn't it?
Why didn't the duck fly?
Ducks can fly.
Why wouldn't it just go with this thing a bit of a dodgy way to fly?
But I'm just going to put it up, OK?
I'm out, guys.
Probably the duck was Tethered to the balloon.
Right.
The most ironic thing you can do is give a bird the power of flight,
but deny it the ability to actually fly away.
But the worst thing if you're on the sheep and the other two fly away,
you're thinking, well, maybe I could do it.
I'm not sure.
I don't know if roosters can really.
I'm trying to remember the plot of Chicken Run
and the extent to which chickens can't or can't fly.
But it's not called Chicken Fly, is it?
It might, indeed.
I read a really nice balloon story yesterday,
which is that in 2007, NASA had funded this project, which
was called BLAST.
And the idea is that they were going to fly it
above the clouds in Antarctica for 40 kilometers high.
And for 12 days, they were going to take photos
by infrared of star formations in the sky.
So it was up there for via the balloon.
12 days is big, sad light.
And then when the 12 days was done, they were bringing it back down.
So they detached it from the balloon,
and it fell towards the Earth, and then parachutes deployed.
So they brought the parachutes, and they landed on Antarctica.
And it was all fine, except just before it landed,
there was meant to be an electronic device that snapped away
the parachutes, but that failed.
As a result, the parachutes were on the side,
and a huge gust of wind came and picked up the parachutes,
and they parisailed away from the researchers for 24 hours.
Non-stop.
They eventually found it 2,000 kilometers away.
But they didn't find it for a year,
because apparently NASA likes to paint everything white.
And as a result, it was just camouflaged 2,000 miles away.
That was awesome.
Wow.
And so they-- kind of like when you drop a crisp packet,
and it gets taken by the wind, and you're
constantly going after it, do they chase it for a while?
Were they running after this thing?
When does that happen at your life?
You know, when you drop a--
[LAUGHTER]
You drop a bit of rubbish.
And if you've ever seen American and beauty,
the wind sometimes takes rubbish, and you chase after it,
and you're always trying to grab it, it always eludes your grasp.
So was it like that, where the scientist constantly
grabbing at it, and it's just dancing away at the last moment?
Not at all, no.
[LAUGHTER]
Have you--
Oh, it's nice that I cleared that up.
Have you eaten all the crisps in this scenario?
Are you trying to get the crisp back,
or are you trying to get the packet back?
I'm not a filthy littler like some people are ending.
[LAUGHTER]
Why?
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah.
Classic eco-conscious festival crowd.
Honestly, if I dropped a packet of crisps,
I'd just open another one immediately.
I'm joking.
Just a full packet.
You've got a full, closed packet.
Sometimes I open a multi-pack, drop it.
It's gone.
Do you know the very first ever balloonists
to cross the English Channel landed with no trousers on?
This is true.
It's 100% true.
So excited.
So at what stage did the trousers go?
Right away.
Almost a minute, no.
On entry.
No, no, no.
So I think we may have done--
we may have mentioned this on QI.
I'm not sure, but many years ago.
So they were crossing English Channel.
It was all going great.
But then, they started to descend.
Or rapidly, there wasn't enough air in the balloon.
And they started getting really worried.
So they immediately took up their trousers.
They first threw away the anchors
on the side of the balloon.
Yeah.
Basically, they could see the white cliffs of Dover.
They were going, oh, we're not quite going to get over those.
So they--
And so now I've got rid of all the sandbags and stuff for that.
They throw away the sandbags.
They throw away the oars that they hope to steer with.
I don't know.
Then they throw away a propeller that they had with them.
That's for some reason.
And then, eventually, they had to throw away pretty much
all the clothes they were wearing, including their trousers.
And they made it.
They made it across.
And they landed with no trousers on.
Did at any point, when the panic was setting in,
what'd they go, who braw all this shit?
Oh, we didn't win the oars.
Of course, we're going to crash into a mountain you dick.
So when they landed with our trousers,
did they all stay in the balloon,
or do you use them to get out for the press conference?
They said--
It does sound like an excuse though.
It does sound like an excuse.
What are you suggesting, James?
I'm suggesting that they took their trousers off
for another reason.
Right.
When the press turned up, they said, why have you done that?
And they said, well, we took our trousers off
because of the thing.
And they said, well, did you throw anything else?
And they're like, yeah, we threw out all the oars that we had here.
OK, it is time for our final fact of the show.
And that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My factor is that Volkswagen sells more sausages than cars.
This is 100% true.
It's unbelievable.
I can't believe I'd never had this before.
This was sent in, by the way, by my covenants
and Mike, if you're listening.
Thank you so much for sending us in.
In 2015, Volkswagen sold 5.8 million cars, pretty good.
But there's all 7.2 million sausages.
But sausages are a lot cheaper.
Yeah, it's easier to make a sausage than a car.
That is true.
So they don't make less money on the sausages.
That's what I'm saying.
Yeah, but they'll have been fine less
for cheating on the emissions.
What the sausages do.
They also make ketchup as well, don't they?
They make their own ketchup, and they get sold in supermarkets
by a pack of Volkswagen's.
If I read this, apparently, they have their own code.
They are listed these sausages as an official Volkswagen
component, which is 1-9308-500-A.
And car dealers will often give you a five pack of sausages
if you buy a Volkswagen.
Does that tip some people over the edge
into making that position?
I think so.
They do.
But very tasty.
It's not that surprising that they sell more sausages than cars,
and if for every car you're giving away five sausages--
That's true.
So they invented them to feed their workers, didn't they?
In the 1970s, they came up with this new kind of sausage
that they give their workers.
And then suddenly, the workers said,
this is really good sausage, guys.
You should sell it.
And they started selling it.
Right.
And they still give it to the workers though every day.
So they have it at about nine in the morning.
It's curry sausage as well.
So it's quite an acquired taste for breakfast.
So curry sausage, big and Germany, basically.
Yeah.
Do you know that Berlin has an entire museum
devoted to curry sausage?
Does it?
It has a curry sausage museum.
And I read some of the reviews of it.
I just wanted to share a review or two with you.
One of the reviews on you.
11 euros seems a steep price to pay for a small exhibit
on the history and glory of curry vest.
Still gave it four stars.
It's a lot of fun.
Then he added, would I go back?
No.
But then he said, in fairness, he said,
because it's an exhibit that I doubt changes its content.
Why would it?
So it's a roller coaster.
Curry first was brought to Germany
by the British, really, wasn't it?
Well, so it's sort of in the, you know,
we just try to claim everything.
But so it was just after World War II.
And so some of the allied soldiers there
introduced curry powder and ketchup,
because we had a lot of curry powder.
We were into curry, a lot of trade with India.
And then a German woman said, oh, that tastes
to be nice with a sausage.
And so she created curry vest.
And in the museum, I believe they say,
without the good old British, we wouldn't have
our staple dish today.
Oh.
James, is inventing the curry sausage?
No, it's not an invention.
It's just putting curry and sausage together.
Is it better than the wind-up radio, as an invention,
would you say?
Well, I haven't been to the museum.
You should go.
It sounds amazing.
What's ours?
They've got a spice chamber with sniffing stations.
They've got audio stations playing curry-worst theme songs,
a virtual curry-versed-making game called Curry Up
and a sausage-shaped sofa.
So I went onto website lovepark.co.uk.
[LAUGHTER]
And I was disappointed to find it.
For starters, won't we be going back?
No, it's not what you would, I think.
It's a non-departmental public body
about the park industry.
But they have some fun facts about sausages.
So for instance, there are more than 500 recipes
for sausage in Britain.
But you could have a different British sausage every day
for 10 years.
Wait.
You wouldn't live that long in it.
No, 5,000, don't you mean?
That's a number of recipes.
But that was two facts mushed together.
Are you invented a new fan?
[LAUGHTER]
And did you know that in 320 AD, eating sausages was a sin.
And it was made a sin by the Catholic Church
because it was associated with pagan festivals.
Wow.
And you just know why they were eating sausages at those.
No, I mean, that is--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Oh, I was imagine a huge phallic ritual kind of--
No, no, I think--
You are completely on your own.
I'm sorry.
And you're in a room of like 200 people.
I don't know if that is--
Surely one person is here.
There was one person at the door.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm here.
I don't need your pity, guys.
I'm a bit of a big alert on this one.
And the other thing about pagans and sausages
is I went on the internet today and Googled pagan sausages.
And I found out there's quite a--
I was disappointed, in fact.
Well, there's quite a few people online who
seem to think that the word Jesus when
said backwards is sausage.
Oh, it's--
It is, sausage.
It's sausage, sausage, sausage.
So maybe that's the reason that it's an evil pagan thing.
Cessage.
That's a huge-- that's like a Da Vinci code moment, isn't it?
Jesus was a sausage.
Can I tell you a little story from the BBC News website?
All right, it's news from Northern Ireland from last week.
Court reporters were a little taken
back when a self-confessed sausage thief
tried to get on first name terms with a judge at Belfast
magistrate's court.
Belfast man, Mike and McNally, who has almost 300
previous convictions, was jailed after emitting a new spade
of shoplifting, including the theft
of 10 packs of sausages.
His defense lawyer told the district judge Fiona Bagnell
that McNally had managed to stay out of jail for six weeks,
which he says is a record for him.
As he was led to the cells McNally
called out to the judge, that's OK.
See you later, Fiona.
Obviously crime is wrong, but on another level, what a guy.
That was how many packs of sausages?
He stole 10 packs of sausages.
Because you couldn't possibly get through those before they
went off, could you?
You could freeze them.
Freeze them.
I'm more of a hand-to-mouth.
I never lose the freezer.
OK, that makes more sense.
That's why you have such a crisp-based diet, isn't it?
Do you know how long the longest sausage was?
No.
It was--
Guys, it was 63 kilometers long.
It's sausage, Christ.
That was a huge sausage, that's massive.
Was it like a mistake in the factory
where they meant to put the twist in between each one?
That guy was off sick that day.
No, the longer it was a deliberate thing,
it was to celebrate Romania day in Romania.
And it was, yeah, 63 miles long.
It was actually a bit disappointing.
They never spread it out all the way, I don't think.
So it was all curled around.
But maybe they just didn't have a space long enough.
Yeah.
How far would you get outside?
60 kilometers from here?
Yeah.
Isn't that space?
Yes.
No, it would be.
Yeah, if you stood the sausage up, you would get a space.
You might hit the International Space Station,
is that right?
Yes, it is.
So that could be how they get there in future.
It's climbing the giant sausage, isn't it?
But have more as interfaiths.
Do you give all the more climb the giant sausage, James?
OK, there was a story-- right, you're Australian, don't you?
Yeah.
So there was a story about the--
So in Australia, when you vote, you get given a democracy
sausage.
This is what they call it.
But!
So if you turn up to vote, they have a load--
genuinely, they have barbecues at every pollination
in Australia.
But during the last election, there
was a massive faux pas by both leaders.
This was in 2016.
So Malcolm Turnbull, the prime minister,
skipped the democracy sausage photo opportunity,
presumably because he thought it might look silly or something.
But get this.
I cannot get my head around this.
Opposition leader Bill Shorten committed a faux pas
when he tried to eat his sausage and bun combination
from the side, rather than from the end.
Wow.
That's brilliant.
What a monster!
How would you even eat?
It's an exciting decision.
I'm calling it.
This is an invention.
Hey, we're going to have to wrap up very shortly.
Yeah, so if you guys have anything before we go.
I have one last thing, which is that during the election campaign
in America, the presidential campaign,
a hot dog stand in Chicago sold a hot dog
that they called the Trump Footlong, which
was actually a three-inch long hot dog.
OK.
That is it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much, everyone here for--
[CHEERING]
--if you would like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter account.
I'm on Ant Shriverland, James.
At XHAT.
Anna, you can email podcast.qi.com.
Andy, that's sausage Jesus.
Yeah, or you can go to our group account, which is at QI podcast.
Guys, in the room, we're going to be going on tour
around the UK in October and November.
If you're free, be awesome to see you there.
Our website, nosuchthingasoffish.com, has the link.
But most importantly, we've been going crazy,
writing what we hope is the best book that
will ever be written in the world called The Book of the Year.
So we've given it a very ambitious title.
And it's out this November.
And it is a book that contains what
we think are the most interesting things
have happened over the last 12 months.
There's a lot of sausage material in there.
There is so much sausage.
But that's it, guys.
Thank you so much.
We thank you.
And I'll see you again.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BLANK_AUDIO]